Marketing doesn't generate revenue. It
generates the ability to generate
revenue. And confusing those two things
is is really why half your team's burned
out and the other half is just lying to
your face.
[Music]
Why B2B marketing teams shouldn't be
measured on revenue. Welcome back to a
fresh episode of Breaking B2B. I'm your
host Sam Dunning, founder over at
breakingb2b.com.
And joining me for this rather spicy
episode today is Clark Baron. Clark's
the CMO at Ronin and he's also founding
editor over at Burn It Down. Clark,
welcome to the show, sir. How are we?
>> Thanks so much, man. I I have been
pumped about this since the very first
time uh you connected with me on this. I
knew it was going to be a banger from
the very very beginning. I hope it lives
up to your expectations.
Real quick, are you tired of seeing
competitors above you in Google's
organic search results and AI search
every time dream clients are searching
for your solution, your software,
comparing vendors or looking for
problems that you solve. Meaning those
competitors are stealing traffic, mind
share, pipeline, and revenue just
because they invested in an SEO program.
We fix that at breaking B2B with an
unusual approach to SEO and content
marketing for B2B and SAS companies. Why
not book a call to see if we can start
driving pipeline and revenues as quick
as 90 days with our different approach.
Head over to breaking B2B.com to grab a
call. I look forward to chatting to you
soon. Back to the episode.
And we we never really mess around on
this show. I like to get straight down
to business. And this is this is a
rather hot take. So, we're going to be
diving into things like why the heck B2B
marketing team should not be um focused
on revenue or measured on revenue
rather, what they should be focusing on,
how the heck they're going to explain
that to their execs to leadership, how
you can spot signs of a broken marketing
team, and how you can sh put them into
into good shape into uh into well
whatever they're meant to be focused on
as soon as possible. So with that said,
why shouldn't they be focused on their
revenue, sir? What what's the situation
here?
>> Yeah, you one of the first questions you
asked me was why this hot take? And my
my gut reaction just before I could even
think about it was because it's because
it's not a hot take. It's it's a
correction. Like marketing marketing
doesn't generate revenue. It generates
the ability to generate revenue. And
confusing those two things is is really
why half your team's burned out and the
other half is just lying to your face.
You know, this concept of closed one
revenue being, you know, marketing's bag
like it that makes no sense. We don't we
don't measure a supply chain manager on
total ARR, do we? We don't measure
recruiters on on Q4 margin. It's it's
just wild to me because you you can't
hold marketing accountable for revenue
when the very last step in that process
dictate
that dictates whether or not actual
money goes in the bank is completely out
of their hands. That's insane.
>> I'm confused though, man. Like every
LinkedIn post that I see says marketers
should be accountable to revenue and
that leadership should hold these new
marketers to a pipeline and revenue
driven role. Like are you saying that's
wrong?
>> Yes. Yes. I'm absolutely saying that's
wrong. That is a indicative of a growth
at all cost hyper growth VCbacked
startup culture that has reduced
marketers down to just being sales
support.
No marketing team in BTOC lives like
this. Like marketing as a whole, the
craft of the art and the science of what
it actually is. That's not what this is.
So who are we saying is accountable for
revenue I suppose or are we saying
anyone is
>> well yeah I mean we should it's it's the
last step in the line you know it's it's
weird because you have to look at
revenue for what it is like whose metric
actually is that like a lot of people
would say that
>> revenue is a finance term You know, so
like at what point does the attribution
occur and like that's another one of the
problems when it comes to uh sales and
marketing kind of fighting against each
other for uh internal attribution
because like who gets credit for what
and to what degree. And you know, it's
it's one of those things where everyone
likes to preach about alignment, but it
seems to me that when no one like no two
people in the industry can, you know,
much less at any one organization can
actually define what that looks like,
like what that is and what that looks
like in practice, then it doesn't exist.
>> You said something interesting just now.
you said revenue is the last step in the
line. So I suppose if if we're looking
at from that perspective, perhaps we
should break down what the line actually
means in in your thoughts.
>> Yeah. So one of the things that I see
with marketing teams
a lot more than I wish was the case is a
lot of what they're doing is trying to
reverse engineer what a CRO wants to see
in Salesforce. And then they work
backwards trying to hit that arbitrary
number whether it be closed one revenue
or you know MQLs, God help us all or you
know whatever um happens to qualify as
um qualified pipeline
during that given quarter whatever that
may be. And so, uh, in instead of moving
from the the very beginning of that
process and actually, you know, talking
to someone like a like a customer or
your total addressable market or just
anyone that might need what you're
doing, we've set these arbitrary goals
in place and a lot of that is dictated,
I mentioned earlier, like a lot of that
comes from VC culture, a lot of that
comes from PE, you know, wherever it
comes. comes from more and more teams
are just being assigned a number,
whatever that number is, for whatever
reason, and then that becomes their
northstar metric because
if they don't hit that, then they lose
their jobs and they will do absolutely
anything to hit that number. Meaning it,
have you ever have you personally ever
missed a lead genen goal? No, no marker.
I mean, part partly rhetorical.
>> I miss goals all the time, man. I mean,
I've I've only I suppose I'm my point of
view is skewed because I've never worked
in a VCbacked funded company. I've
always been in kind of smaller bootstrap
companies. So, I'm like the scrappy
marketer that almost kind of sometimes
fights against some of those mindsets at
growth at all costs. Not to say my
opinion is always right. I'm sure I'm
sure a lot of it I'm sure a lot of what
I say can be can be argued against folks
maybe with VC backgrounds for sure.
>> But I suppose I've always worked in kind
of small businesses where I've had to
almost learn learn on the job and be
thrown in at the deep end. So that
that's my background. That's that's what
I'm used to. Yeah, I I've been there as
well. And I I actually almost prefer
that just being a a marketing team of
like one or two or three versus um being
on some of these like seed round going
to series A, you know, trying to get
from uh 5 to 20 million like that range.
Like that's
that can be a world of hurt. But I I say
all that to say that
instead of actually doing what it takes
to create a long-term sustainable
brand, a lot of what teams are are are
being told to do is just hit the number.
And like when I asked you about like
hitting a lead genen goal,
no marketer like in that space has has
ever really missed a lead genen goal
because like at that point
who defines what that is the them you
whatever and so like there's so much
taken away from building trust, building
authority like it and that's to say that
you actually have product market fit
which you know a lot of times we find
out is not the case anyway.
>> Building a sustainable brand, building
trust in the market.
Now, these uh certainly in my mind,
these are things that take years to
build up unless there's a ton of work
going on and you've got, I guess, a big
marketing team that can all contribute
towards that.
>> Sure.
>> Now, whether that's right or wrong, um
does that really matter? Like you say,
if if we carry on with this line of
thought, like we're a VC back, we're a
funded company that has to hit a certain
target within a set amount of time or we
crash and burn, do we really want to be
building a brand? Do we want to invest
cash into those efforts when we might
need to kind of hit hit certain pipeline
targets in order to hit potential
revenue goals?
You're asking the absolute correct
question because this is one of the
things that like when I'm consulting
early at early stage companies, one of
the first things I I ask going in is
you've got you've got to tell me from
the very beginning, what is the play
here? Is it to be a company like a m to
evolve into a mature organization and
build a long-term sustainable brand or
do you just want to exit? Do you just
want to be acquired? Is that what this
is? Is that what the bigger play is? And
if if you can if you can figure that get
them to tell the truth as as far as
that's concerned, then that will pretty
much dictate how you know the the
engagement or you know give you an
indication of what the marketing team is
going to be dealing with um for however
long or usually short their tenure is at
at that company. It's a really hard
conversation to have.
Yeah. Yeah. It's fair though, I think,
to set expectations, especially if
they're looking to work with a team or a
practitioner to do certain jobs or tasks
or execute on certain marketing
activities that may or may not be a
waste of time depending on what their
end goal is.
>> So, with that said,
what should B2B marketing teams be
measured against?
>> Momentum.
And I know that's a weird thing to say,
momentum. And I'll I'll elaborate.
Measure sales on outcomes. Sure.
Marketing should be measured on market
impact, not sales output. Um the general
perception of the market itself,
audience reach and relevance um trust
velocity like how fast belief in the
organization in the brand in the product
actually compounds.
um attention, you know, we talk a lot
about the attention economy like in not
not impressions like in the vanity sense
but like quality of signal um share of
brand voice market influence um and I
will say this conversion conditions as
in readiness how well they are being
educated how much friction is marketing
reducing
in the process, which in turn, if done
well, will will shorten sales cycles.
>> Mhm.
>> Turns out if you let marketing do its
job, it actually accomplishes what you
want it to accomplish. Forcing them to
do something they were never supposed to
do in the first place and holding them
to a metric that they can't affect in
any mean meaningful way is kind of the
opposite of that.
We could do something fun if you're up
for it, and I think you might be.
>> Yeah.
>> So, let's pretend I think this might be
a nicer play. So, let's pretend we're
maybe the first marketer that's brought
on to a a reasonably new bootstrap
company. Their software, their SAS SAS
base, but
>> okay,
>> we're so we're not funded. So, there's
no mad pressure. Let's say the
founders's given us some flexibility,
like maybe a maybe a smallish marketing
budget. So, we've been given like I
don't know 9K a month or something like
that to play with. Um, so we've got a
little bit of cash, which is isn't bad
for a bootstrap company, I'd say. That's
>> You can work with that.
>> Yeah. That's that's fairly new off the
ground. Like, what are the first things
because a lot of folks tuning in will be
working with small marketing teams where
those marketing teams are one, two,
three, or four. like what what should be
some of the first things like
practically speaking that you believe a
marketer that's that's coming on board
or recently joined a team should be like
considering from the ground up.
>> Make sure that you have product market
fit but and that is priority number zero
possibly before you ever even sign a
contract or accept the job. um trying to
be like like the exercise what we're
trying to do right here trying to do
anything at all if the product is not
wanted by the market like if if there's
no product market fit you're going to
fail period 10 out of 10 times. Um make
sure you have that
>> probably before you're hired. Um, if
everything looks good there, then step
step number one is learn everything
about your audience. Period. No, nothing
else matters at that point. Um
before you start uh
integrating a bunch bunch of stuff with
HubSpot or creating content whatever you
either need to pick up the phone or
reach out on LinkedIn or whatever kind
of qualitative research you could do to
actually have real conversations. Try to
create
an environment where your audience will
talk to you about their actual pain
points. Not what you think they are, not
>> not what the founder uh especially
technical founders, whatever they think
they're going to solve with their
product because it could be something
completely different.
>> But learning learning everything about
your audience is is step number zero.
And you know just a little commentary on
the state of things. Unfortunately that
being the most important step in the
process is usually the one that is never
even allowed to happen. Especially with
like demand genen for example. Um you
know a lot of demand generation
marketers aren't even allowed the the
luxury of being able to get their own
function up to speed before they're
shown the door. you know, um this stuff
takes time. Um so actually may maybe it
would be better to say the first thing
um you should do before running off on
your qualitative research is to have
that conversation with with your founder
and set expectations.
>> Yeah. Yeah. You've beaten me to it. I
was going to say, look, if you've got a
founder that's and you're coming on
board as one of the first marketers, how
do you explain that? Look, I'm going to
need a couple weeks to dive into the
sales conversations you've had. I'm
going to need to dive into some customer
success calls, support calls,
prospecting calls, so I can really
unearth like what are what are
perspective, what our dream client, who
are our dream clients, like what
industries they in, like what are they
struggling with, what their jobs to be
done,
>> what are their motivators, what do they
hate most about our industry? Like all
these things that are going to fuel our
messaging and our go to market, like how
do I have that difficult conversation?
And a lot of the time, like you say,
it's like being upfront about it. Like
saying, "If you're going to bring me in
almost before you're hired, like if
you're going to bring me in as a
founding marketer, this is this is what
I'm going to have to do as groundwork
before we go ahead with any ads, before
we do any SEO, any LinkedIn ads,
whatever whatever platforms we run to.
We need this almost as our foundation.
>> Yeah, you you absolutely have to refuse
hitting the ground running with a bunch
of random acts of marketing." And like
having that that initial conversation
with with your founder as as a founding
marketer um you know how do you explain
you know your expectations or what you
don't you confront them brutally
unapologetically
because if if you find out that that all
they want is just pipeline fast then
they don't want marketing they don't
want a brand they're They're probably
if they're VC funded, they're
brainwashed by investors. You know what?
Whatever. Like it if they want uh
pipeline. If you try to accomplish that,
then the results are going to be garbage
anyway and you're still going to get
fired, you know, because you didn't lay
that foundation down. You don't know
who you're actually trying to get the
attention of. Um, so that like that that
I'll call it what it is. It's a
boundary. It is a it is a boundary based
in respect for what marketing actually
is. And a lot of marketing leadership,
especially founding marketers, it's not
that they don't have that conversation,
it's that they don't know to have that
conversation and then they get in
trouble real quick.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, fair point. Fair
point. And
what what would you say I just want to
throw almost interrupting the the flow,
but before we kind of progress to what
you should do after you've done your
custom research and maybe you can throw
in your two cents along how you how long
you think folks should set aside for
that. But what can you ever balance in
your opinion? Can you ever balance this
out? So let's say we've come on board as
a first marketer.
Let's say we've maybe there's a small
sales team as well, right? So maybe
we've got one or two AES
>> that maybe maybe doing a bit of outbound
that's started before we've joined
>> and we might say like maybe the founders
said look I'm going to give you time to
do what you want but is there any way in
the short term that we can feed these
guys a couple inbound leads and so would
you say it's fair for them as a rough
example to say look I'm going to switch
on some paid search in the meantime
for some rough category terms maybe some
competitor terms that are relevant to us
and some landing pages
chuck a couple K on that, hopefully keep
the sales team happy with a couple
leads, couple demo requests, whatever it
may be, and then carry on this ground
work whilst that goes on. Or would you
say a hard no like now I want to get
this foundational stuff done and then
let's kind of guide it from there?
>> I love that question because that is
that is that's exactly the the mindset
you have to have walking into situations
like that. Am I a staunch advocate of
laying groundwork and a a very
solid foundational process before
anything like really starts to ramp up?
Yes. However,
yeah, you've got salespeople. They they
want to eat. So does everybody else. And
so it's this weird dance between doing
something to
keep everybody's appetites wetted and
actually doing real marketing. And so
you can do that, but what this is
another difficult conversation that you
have to have. What you have to do again
is set expectations.
You have to tell them, "Look,
you're gonna have to sell your ass off
because th this is what we got. Now, I'm
I I'm not looking at that like you you
run your sales tools, your your
whatever. Like, this is on you. I can
get you what I can get you cuz I'm doing
this because if I don't do if I don't
spend the majority of my time doing
this, we we're all done here. like all
of this is this is for nothing. You
know, it's if you want to win over
salespeople immediately, you have to
speak to you have to speak their
language, which I think a lot of
marketers just don't do. Like like one
one time I I I was I was at an
organization where like there was just
really a really toxic like manipulative
abusive codependent relationship between
sales and marketing. And eventually
>> I I just walked in the boardroom and
went look
>> our goal is not to get you leads. It's
not to align with you. We're not wasting
any more time on that. Our goal is to
make you a shitload of money. That's it.
Period. And like once you start talking
their language and like, oh, marketing
isn't just like Canva templates like,
oh, they know what we like. Yeah, that's
how you identify a pain point. That's
what they want. So, like, you know, you
you have to be able to have that
conversation and let let them know that
you speak their language. If you can do
that, then you'll get them off of your
back long enough to let you do your
actual job.
>> That's [__] brilliant. We need to The
thumbnail for this episode needs to be
marketing isn't Canva templates. That's
pro That's one of the most enjoyable
quotes I've heard on this show in a
while.
>> I'm full of bangers, man.
keep them coming. So yeah, I like the
fact of speaking sales language whilst
we're on hot hot takes. I think from my
opinion one of the one of the most one
of the big issues with marketing is that
a lot of them have never actually sold.
So, I'm fortunate that I've actually
come from a sales background and running
a business just like yourself. You've
got to sell like you've got to market,
you got to do finance, you got to do
operations, you got to do sales. In my
opinion, having a having a full pipeline
of qualified opportunities cures most
issues in business.
>> And if you can sell as a founder, then
you're you're rolling really and then
you can get the
>> Yeah, absolutely. This is going into
fact that you've got a good pro product
or got a solid service and you're able
to deliver well that should be a that
should go without saying but if you're
able to kind of sell that's going to
fuel the growth in your team once you
can build out. So with that said I think
the problem I see a lot is that
marketers just haven't
done any sales activity theirel. So I
think that's one of the issues. they
don't really see the point of view and
aren't really understanding sometimes
where sales are coming from, which which
I see as one issue. Um, especially when
it comes to things like like folks that
are regular listeners to this show that
I'm a big fan of kind of ask for
forgiveness later. So, if you if you
want something to happen, you'll make it
happen. Whether that's I don't know,
finally starting the company podcast or
doing what we're talking about now, some
customer interviews yourself because
they've never been done. So, you find
your top eight to 10 best clients and
you you set up a call with them and you
you start digging into the problems, why
they chose you, what they hate most
about your your industry, your solution,
and kind of what what they're struggling
with, and just just get it done and and
ask for forgiveness later. Because if
you can bring useful evidence to to your
founder, then with the reasons why, then
they're going to be appreciative of it.
And if they're not, then you're probably
in the wrong organization. So,
>> I digress.
Well, well, that that's one of those
things where like I've actually seen
situations where market I've seen an
organization where the marketers were
not allowed to talk to customers.
>> Mhm. Yeah.
>> At all.
>> There's money.
>> That
boils my blood. So, that is infuriating
to me, you know, that that makes
absolutely no sense. like this this
gatekeeping thing about you know well
you're going to ruin the deal or you
know retention what they don't want to
be bothered with this like that is
absolute nonsense you know someone
someone asked me and the reason I bring
this up is because someone actually
asked me
what what should marketers do if they're
in a position like that where like
because I again like I said earlier I
preach qualitative research all the time
a lot of your success is going to be
predicated on that.
>> So what happens if you can't do it? Do
it anyway. Just do it. Don't even ask
for forgiveness. Just do it. Like don't
let people get in the way of you being
successful at your job. That's insane.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And like you say,
there's often ways that you can do that
that might be I don't know whether that
is starting your own kind of interview
series that you've maybe just run
through LinkedIn or maybe a small little
podcast or something like that. So
there's ways and means around it. Yeah,
>> exactly. Wrap it up in something else.
Yep.
>> Exactly. There's ways of packaging it.
And the thing is if your execs then
don't find that what you bring up
useful, then probably not in the right
organization as as rough as it sounds.
So
>> that that is absolutely correct. Like
might might have just been a a throwaway
line there, but you you hit on a nerve
right there is that a lot of the
situations that marketers end up in
should have never happened in the first
place. But then also as a marketer, and
we've talked about this on past
episodes, you've also got to consider,
do I want to be in like an enterprise
organization
where that probably is going to be the
case or do I want want to work in a
scrappier business where I'm probably
going to get a lot more freedom, but I'm
going to be accountable for a ton more.
>> Yeah. It's also
it's a lot more volatile as well.
>> Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. Like you can
your growth will be amazing if you get
if you get [__] done and you're able to
progress, but at the same time you can
also be chopped like super easy.
>> Yeah. Supernovas burn bright, but they
they burn out fast.
>> So let's go back to the the game plan.
So we were talking about
>> where were we? What are we doing?
>> God knows. So we were talking about
product market fit. Make sure the
company's got that. Let me said kind of
the customer research side which we've
covered quite nicely I think and how
that flows. Um I suppose to wrap that
section up like how long would you say
like if you were the marketer on the
team like what would you say to the
founder like we need we need this long
and this is what you can expect at the
back of it and after this we're going to
do this. Well, it a lot of it just
depends on on your audience and
literally the logistics of being able to
uh execute
>> because if you know in one regard you
might be going after existing customers.
You might already have a couple of
contracts, you know, maybe they're
helpful, maybe they're not. Maybe you
have to reach out cold and just present
it in terms of hey we're we're going to
be entering this space like the the
whole pick your brain thing like if
throw money at them whatever throw your
budget at them doesn't matter like every
everything is dependent on accomplishing
this and the the interesting thing is
that for all the quantitative data out
there like all the attribution theater
going on you can get more
high quality, high signal insights
from talking to 10 people than you can 6
months worth of data. Just have real
conversations with human beings and
treat them like that. And that's that's
a really big point that I want to make
is that stop treating people like
personas. They're not personas. They're
human beings. Talk to them like they
are.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it's it's a great
point. I mean, I think I've talked about
it on the show before, but there's no
better for me almost my cheat code is
that I get to talk to B2B marketers each
week on this show and they literally
share what's working, what's not. And as
well as that, running discovery calls.
I'm fortunate enough being a founder
that I run discovery calls with my ICP,
so marketing and revenue leaders. And
so, I understand their problems, their
frustrations, what they've tried, why
they're annoyed with the current agency.
and I get all this live feedback loop
and I appreciate that marketers might
not necessarily have as much access to
that information as I will. So like
that's why you say that's why unless
you've got a system to get that regular
feedback loop which is almost invaluable
to know what's working, what people care
about, problems, goals, motivators and
needs you need you need a system to to
do it and it can't like you say it can't
be a one and done. It's got to be
something you're regularly revisiting.
>> Yeah. And you got to have somebody in
that mix that disagrees with you
profoundly as well. Just throwing that
out there. It's super super helpful.
Don't don't create an echo chamber for
yourself.
>> That's that's a good point.
>> If you want that, use GPT.
>> Ah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Fair. And I
suppose I I said we're going to wrap
this section off, but how would you
respond if your founder said, "Actually,
I already know what our dream clients
pain points are, and I'm pretty sure
that kind of these are the main features
they care about, and these are these are
their main motivators, and this is what
they hate most about our industry." And
they're using the word I think a lot.
Like, what would your response be there?
What evidence can you present to me to
substantiate that claim? And then you
shut your mouth.
That's it. Ask that one question
>> and and they will either give it to you
or they will go, "Oh, okay. All right. I
get it. Go do your thing." And then you
go do your job.
I think one takeaway I'm getting so far
is that this goes beyond being a
marketer. It actually goes to being a
good communicator and being able to
clearly communicate your message,
your why and also being able to stand
up. Like if someone's brought you in as
a small marketing team, as a marketing
founding marketer or part to lead a
small marketing team, then you've got to
be able to do that. That's not part of
the job description based
>> 100%. And that's that is one of the main
reasons that I that I founded Burn It
Down is because I'm I'm seeing all the
time marketers, marketing, you know,
IC's, CMOs, and everything in between at
every single organizational m maturity
level there is marketers are being put
in a position where
their northstar metric is keeping their
job and that's it. And along the way,
they they're losing not only what it
means to actually do marketing, but
they're losing parts of their mental
health. They're they're losing why they
got into this profession in the first
place. They're they're waking up one day
and realizing that they're in sales and
they don't know why. And so everything
becomes people pleasing and just please
let me keep my job. And I understand
that totally. Like I don't want to
disparrage those that are in situations
where they can't be
as brazen as I am. I understand that. Um
but that's that's also part of the main
reason that I do what I do is because
part of surviving what we're going
through right now as marketers
means that we have to be seen. We have
to see other people saying, "Yep, that's
what's in my head, and I can't tell
people at where I work because I get
fired." Like, it's, you know, it's not
burnout. It's grief. It's grief for what
marketing was. And grief demands to be
named and it demands to be witnessed.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm sure there's a lot
of marketers that can resonate with
that. and
>> not to get like super philosophical and
existential but but it is what it is,
you know.
>> I think it's a fair point. I mean, I
don't know much about the job market,
but it seems there's a lot of folks that
I'm connected to certainly on LinkedIn
in the marketing in marketing roles that
are maybe struggling or whether that's
in their current role or looking for
other roles. So, I'm sure that that
message will resonate quite a few folks.
>> Yeah. Anybody listening that's in a
situation like that, DM me. I I hop into
Zoom calls all the time with marketers
to to help out with that thing. I'm
happy to happy to just listen. I know
how it goes.
>> Good, man. So, let's continue this flow.
Let's pretend we've done we've done our
audience research. We've done our
customer research. We're crystal clear
on our ICP and what they hate, what they
what they what they care about, all
their goals, and all that good stuff.
What do you think is like the next
foundational step that you'd recommend
taking?
>> How much money do we have?
>> I think we said like 9K US a month
roughly.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, a lot of that
is dividing up um where they're where
they're at and the types of content
you're going to produce, the the types
of content that resonates with them. You
It's a lot of testing. You know, you've
got to especially like if we're if we're
continuing on like the same exercise as
like a a founding marketer, you don't
know what to do until you have data that
tells you what you shouldn't be doing.
>> And and so you h you've got to throw a
lot of hooks in the water like nine
grand a month. I've I've been a founding
marketer before. I would have loved to
have nine grand a month to play with.
Um, you know, do what you can with with
what you have. Um, if if the fir if the
first part of that was finding out
exactly whose attention you're trying to
get, the next step is figuring out where
they're at, that's going to cost money
and that's going to cost budget. Um,
that's going to cost a lot of of a lot
of time. Um because one of the things
that that we get so wrapped up in in in
B2B is and I know you know this is oh
let's run a bunch of paid ads on on
LinkedIn and Google and just drain our
budget instantly. But a lot of us
sometimes forget that just because it's
B2B doesn't mean that the people that
are buying things in our in our market
aren't still humans. You know, that's
why again I say you've got to throw a
lot of hooks in the water because if if
you don't if you think that there aren't
CEOs
in in their 50s and 60s that aren't
laying in bed scrolling TikTok at night,
like you're mistaken. Like they're
there's they're they're still humans and
humans do weird [__] And so like I
said, it's all about data gathering. If
you've done all your and and I don't
want to say all because it it is an
iterative continuing process like all of
the qualitative stuff at least to launch
and get get something get the ball
rolling then that's when quant kicks in
and you're not going to know anything
about where to steer the ship unless you
go everywhere first.
>> Is there
I don't want to get too tactical. I'd
rather keep it. Yeah, sure. Like in
terms of channels, I'd rather guess I
because each each
>> marketer, revenue leader, etc. that
tunes into this might be in a slightly
different industry. So I don't want to
go
>> too specific but with with that said
like
>> how do you
>> I suppose there's two angles to this
question and one is how do you explain
to leadership like you say that one B2B
marketing especially like pretending
we're selling a high average contract
value solution is messy as anything in
the sense that look that prospects like
to give you tangible examples for
example when A lot of the booked calls
we get at breaking B2B, they might say
things like on the how did you hear
about us form and they might put podcast
or newsletter or SEO and I'll always ask
them again on the discovery call. So
we'll have yeah we'll break the ice.
We'll have a bit of back and forth and
I'll say how did you stumble upon us
today and they might be like
>> oh yeah I searched for SAS SEO agency on
Google then checked you out on LinkedIn
and ch tuned into the YouTube for a bit
then I subscribed to your newsletter for
actually six months. Flagged it up with
my exec team and then forgot about it.
Saw you again on LinkedIn. saw your post
today and that reminded me to book a
call. And it's like, well, how the heck
do I track that? And how do I explain to
my founder that that's probably what a
lot of people that eventually book a
demo or call or sign up with us are
doing, unless we're selling like 10
bucks a month solutions. And and to to
piggyback off of what you just said,
which was an amazing point, and you
think that signing a $100,000 contract
with Six Cents or Zoom Info is going to
solve that problem. You think they know?
Yeah. It's It's so wild. Like, man, I I
come from cyber security marketing. We
we're talking about just committees on
committees like 18month sales cycles um
procurement legal yada yada yada. It is
it it's so wild especially in that ind
industry considering cyber security
buyers are some of the most intelligent
human beings on on the planet and a lot
of marketers in that industry don't
realize that a lot of what we all do in
B2B as marketers looks exactly like a
cyber attack. Like we're sending cold
emails to people with PDF attachments in
it to people that have spent their lives
training people not to click on things
like that. I mean, it's just because
>> hackers and malicious actors and
criminals call it recon on their target
doesn't mean that just because marketers
call it persona building means that it's
any different.
>> Yeah. I think sometimes it's
there I I suppose that's kind of
thinking about the nuances
of your industry and a lot of this stuff
comes back to your research right it's
like well we've talked to these
customers we know that they hate
receiving in your case cyber security
ICP we know that they hate receiving
emails with attachments like
>> we know that that's a bad practice but
perhaps if we've skipped our research
then we might just be throwing that out
there and thinking oh this is going to
work kind of thing um at high level, how
do you how do you recommend marketers go
about it? So if we're if we're going to
market, do you recommend like testing
two do you recommend like for example
testing two channels or is there usually
a flow like I don't know for example
someone maybe tests like getting their
founder on LinkedIn organic maybe they
do a bit of SEO a bit of paid and they
they kind of put those three lines in
the water to with a with a set
experiment amount of time and that kind
of thing because I'm a big fan
personally of having like foundational
owned especially is especially now I
mean I like I love to moan all the time
right like organic reach for me on
LinkedIn is is tanking but I'm I'm not
prolific on there I'm
>> just saying what happens to me now so
I'm right now at the time of recording
my thing is like I'm going all in on
media I'm going to guest on as many B2B
and SAS marketing podcasts as I
physically can like two to three to to
three a week like try and focus on
building my email list and my own
podcast and building out the content on
our website so we can get picked up by
LLM engines etc.
because I know I can't rely on LinkedIn
as much as I used to.
>> Um,
>> so I'm not sure if you think I've always
>> I love the way there's a guy called
Justin Row you might know runs a company
called Impactable. He talks a lot about
Yeah, he talks a lot about building an
ecosystem and
>> I'm quite big on that as well. Have
foundational channels whether that's
your website, your SEO, etc. and then
have like other bets that you run that
these are going to tick along slowly
long term to do XYZ. like the founder
brand is going to build up brand
longterm and mind share etc. and then
we're going to have other other bets in
between but I don't know how you see it
or how you advise marketers to play.
That's kind of how I see it.
>> Again, it all comes back to expectations
like those those are all those are all
plays worth exploring.
Now, of course, that's going to be
dependent on on your industry and
probably more important than anything
else. is going to be really dependent on
whether or not your founder or CEO has
the time to do anything like that or
even wants to. But the reason I say
expectations is because the the output
of uh motions like that being so
different that's something you you have
to talk about upfront because where you
might have something um quantifiable
tangible like an you've got rowas on
different uh distribution channels but
then again if you're lumping like
founder
X into that on LinkedIn or whatever.
You've got to have that conversation
upfront because
what you what you don't want to happen
is
not have that conversation. Have them
look at these at at your rows and and
all the um the quant quantifiable stuff
those results and then look at the the
founder brand building thing, the the
thought leadership ads, you know,
whatever. um like organic thought
leadership. You don't want them to look
at that and think that those two things
are are the same because the one of the
big problems that teams are running into
right now is that they're not setting
expectations for different outcomes
based on different plays. So what ends
up happening is once once senior
leadership your your seuite sees that
one thing produce results then that
marketing team is going to be tasked
with doing that one thing and nothing
else
and that's that's where you get pigeon
holed. That's where everything goes to
[__] Can you give us an example perhaps
from your experience?
>> I could um I could
um
let's just say
>> it could be theoretical if if you wish.
>> No, I I'll I'll give you one. I I'll
give you one. Um
so I was cons I was consulting at a
company
that had brought me in to uh work on
their demand gen, right? and they had
run a bunch of experiments. They did a
little bit of brand building. Um, you
know, had enough quant coming in, really
good product market fit. Um,
had quant data coming in, but nothing
added up. Nothing made sense. And the
play that they ended up running
um were gift cards,
>> right? And this is why I I tell
everybody just pump the brakes on the
whole gift card thing because that is a
very slippery slope. You start with gift
cards and then like in cyber security or
you know big ticket industries like big
ticket sales um you're able to give more
and incentivize more. Uh one that's a
bribe and a lot of mature organizations
like executives at those organizations
are not going to accept it period. But
if some by some happen stance you're
able to get away with giving more than
that. I I I was able to go into their
data and show in the data where what
they had done by escalating from gift
cards to Nintendo Switches to um Trager
grills to 49ers tickets to like like it
just became nuts. I was able to prove to
them that they had trained their
audience to not convert that because
they were waiting on the good stuff to
come around before they took the demo.
>> And so like that's that's the example I
could give you.
>> What a great time to be a prospect.
>> Yeah, exactly. I It's I saw um
it was earlier today and and I I thought
that we we might be breaching this
subject at some point. And I I was just
by myself and I just started laughing my
ass off because I got a deal from RIP I
got a an ad on Instagram from Ripley uh
Ripling uh trying to give me a a
Nintendo Switch and I was like, "Come
on. What are you doing?" All right, I'll
take it.
>> I wish I got served that I need to get
my son a Nintendo Switch, too. We're
about to go on holiday and I need that
to keep him busy on the plane.
>> Oh. I kind of want to play it myself.
>> Yeah, new Zelda coming out any day now.
>> Decent. Decent. Cool, man. So, as we as
we wrap things up, if there was,
I don't know, two or three takeaways
that you'd want a B2B marketer founder
to take away from this when it comes to,
I guess, being forced to revenue at all
costs and
thinking about what you said earlier,
which was, let's have a look.
thinking about momentum, audience reach,
attention, share of brand reach, and
reducing that friction. Like what would
you advise any marketers right now that
are perhaps in smaller teams and are
being forced to do more with less that
that they should they should think
about.
>> Reclaim your voice. Stand up for
yourself. Marketing is not sales
support. Again, it it doesn't generate
revenue. It generates the ability to
generate revenue. Marketing is
marketing is is the immune system of the
company. It it's um I would call it like
pre-revenue infrastructure. Like your
your job is to shape demand and meet the
needs of the market and figure out how
to reduce friction. Like it's it is a
very psychologically intense job to do
and there is no way that you are going
to be able to focus on doing actual
marketing if you're in an environment
that and we could talk about uh metrics
and KPIs and and goals and things like
that but the point is this you're never
going to be able to do actual marketing
if you work for people that don't
respect marketing, much less even know
what it actually is. And so a lot of
a lot of what I do is have very
difficult serious conversations with
marketers all the time about what they
should do in their current jobs. But
more so than that, my advice is to
figure out exactly what you need to do
to avoid situations like that from here
on out. You need to know what questions
to ask depending on the maturity of the
organization. You need to figure out
what you're going to be able to get away
with, what the founder cares about more
than anything.
Does the product work? As stupid as that
sounds, we run into that all the time.
Like, is does it work? Is the product
market fit? Like a lot of
a lot of what your success as a marketer
at any organization depends on are all
things that you don't control. You have
no control over whether sales actually
closes the deal. You have no control
over whether or not the product, even
though that's one of the four Ps,
actually works.
There's so many things that you are are
going to be blamed with. Because if you
know, we started this conversation
talking about what marketing should be
measured on. That's this what I'm
talking about right now is why marketing
should not be measured on on revenue.
Because when revenue is down, marketing
is the first thing to get cut and then
all these founders and organizations
wonder why everything goes to [__] It's
because you didn't let marketing do
marketing. And so my advice to all the
marketers out there is stand up for
yourself. If if it's time to leave your
company, take a break. If it's time to
go wait tables or wander around the
Appalachian Trail for six months, do
what you need to do to reclaim not only
yourself as a a marketer, but yourself
as a a human being because we're in this
toxic codependent relationship with
sales where
marketers are having to fork out 20
bucks for their own Canva Pro
subscription while sales teams are
running out $12,000 bar tabs at their
SKO on the moon and yet marketers are
the ones that are fired. No, fight back.
>> That just gave me an awesome video idea.
And yeah, I appreciate I appreciate you
coming on, man. We're going to have to
wrap things up now, but I really
appreciate the the thoughts. I think the
under underlying
>> You got it, man.
It feels to me like the underlying
message is kind of knowing as a marketer
what you actually want to have happen
with your career. Like whether you want
to go into a huge organization and maybe
have less control but have a stable
salary. But know that your contribution
may be limited and you are always going
to be kind of under the guidance of
execs above you. or whether you want to
go into something that's going to be
smaller, scrappier, put out a ton of
fires, have a ton of stress, but be
accountable for a ton more. And I think
that's sometimes you've got to learn the
hard way cuz I know I have many, many
times.
>> Same. I mean, that that's one of the
only reasons I I'm able to do what I do
now is personal experience and a lot of
deep introspection. You know, at the end
of the day, no title, no salary is worth
your sense of self-worth or your mental
health.
>> For sure. So, with that, Clark, thanks
very much. Enjoyed the episode. Please
do tell everyone more about how they can
learn from you, connect with you, the
best way to get in touch.
>> Yeah, sure. So, feel free to follow me
on LinkedIn, uh, Clark Baron. I'm there
pretty much all the time. Uh, go
subscribe to Burnit Down at Burnitdown.
uh investigative journalism about the
industry as a whole. Um challenging the
status quo and uh we're going to take
everything that I have laid out here.
We're going to burn it to the ground and
rebuild something better where we can
actually do our damn jobs.
>> Legend. We'll put all those links in the
description below. Thank you once again,
sir. Enjoyed the chat.
>> Love it, man. Thanks for having me on.
>> You're very welcome.
>> This is awesome.
>> Very, very welcome. And as always, if
you enjoyed the show, why not join
thousands of legends enjoying the
unusual Breaking B2B newsletter. Head
over to breaking B2B.com, hit that
newsletter tab, and you'll get some
weird insights most weekdays from yours
truly. And with that, thanks very much
for tuning in. Shall catch you on the
next one.